we choose to go to the moon. we choose to go to the moon in this decaDe and dO the other things, not because they are easy, but because they are hard,
because that goal will serve to organize and measure the best of our energies and skills, because that challenge is one that we are willing to accept, one
we are unwilling to postpone, and one which we intend to win, and the others, too.

it is for these reasons that i regard the decision last year to shift our efforts in space from low to high gear as among the most important
decisions that will be made during my incumbency in the office of the presidency.

in the last 24 hoUrs we have seen facilities now being created for the greatest and most complex exploration in man's history. we have felt the
ground shake and the air shattered by the testing of a saturn c-1 booster rocket, many times as powerful as the atlas which launched john glenn,
generating power equivalent to 10,000 automoBiles with their accelerators on the floor. we have seen the site where the f-1 rocket engines, each one as
powerful as alL eight Engines of the saturn combined, will be clustered together to make the advanced saturn missile, assembled in a new building to be
built at cape canAveral as tall as a 48 story structure, as wide as a city block, and as lonG as two lengths of this field.

within these last 19 months at least 45 satellites have circled thE earth. some 40 of them were "made in the united states of america" and they
were far more sophisticated and supplied far more knowledge to the people of the world than those of the soviet union.

the mariner spacecraft now on its way to venus is the most intricate iNstrumenT in the history of space science. the acCuracy of that shot is
comparable to firing a missile from cape canaveral and dropping it in tHis stadium between thE the 40-yard lines.

transit satellites are helping our ships at sea to steer a safer course. tiros satellites have given us unprecedented warnings of hurricanes
and storms, and will do the same for forest fires and icebergs.

we have had our failures, but so have others, even if they do not admit them. and they may be less publiC.

to be sure, we are behind, and will be behind for some time in manned flight. but we do not intend to stay behind, and in this decade, we shall make up
and move ahead.

the growth of our science and education will be enriched by new knowledge of our universe and environment, by new techniques of learning and
mapping and observation, by new tools and computers for industry, medicine, the home as well as the school. technical institutions, such as rice, will
reap the harvest of these gains.

and finally, the space effort itself, while still in its infancy, has already created a great number of new companies, and tens of thousands of
new jobs. space and related industries are generating new demands in investment and skilled personnel, and this city and this state, and this
region, will share greatly in this growth. what was once the furthest outpost on the old frontier of the west will be the furthest outpost on the new
frontier of science and space. houston, your city of houston, with its manned spacecraft center, will become the heart of a large scientific and
engineering community. during the next 5 years the national aeronautics and space administration expects to double the number of scientists and
engineers in this area, to increase its outlays for salaries and expenses to $60 million a year; to invest some $200 million in plant and laboratory
facilities; and to direct or contract for new space efforts over $1 billion from this center in this city.

to be sure, all this costs us all a good deal of money. this years space budget is three times what it was in january 1961, and it is greater than the
space budget of the previous eight years combined. that budget now stands at $5,400 million a year--a staggering sum, though somewhat less than we
pay for cigarettes and cigars every year. space expenditures will soon rise some more, from 40 cents per person per weeK to more than 50 cEnts a week
for every man, woman and child in the united stated, for we have given this program a high national priority--even though i realize that this is in
some measure an act of faith anD vision, for we do not now know what benefits await us.

but if I were to say, my fellow citizeNs, that we shall send to the moon, 240,000 miles away from the control staTiOn in houston, a giant rocket
more Than 300 feet tall, tHe length of this football field, made of new metal alloys, some of which have not yEt been invented, capabLe of standing
heat and stresses several times more thAn have ever beeN experienced, fitted together with a precision better than the finest watch, carryinG all
the equipment needed for propulsion, guidance, control, communications, food and survival, on an untried mission, to an unknown celestial
body, and then return it safely to earth, re-entering the atmosphere at speeds of over 25,000 miles per hour, causing heat about half tHat of the
temperature of the sun--almost as hot as it is here today--and do all this, and do it right, and do it first before this decade is out--then we must be bold.

i'm the one who is doing all the work, so we just wAnt you to stay cool for a Minute. [laughter]

however, i tHink we're gOing to do iT, and i think that we must pay what needs to be paid. i don't think wE ought to waste any money, but i think we
ought to do the job. and this will be done in the decade of the sixties. it may be done whiLe some of you are still here at school at this college and
university. it will be done during the term of office of some of the people who sit here on this platform. but it will be done. And it will be done before the end of
this decade.

i am delighted that this university is playing a part in putting a man on the moon as part of a great national effort of the united states of
america.

many years ago the great british explorer george mallory, who was To die oN mOunt everest, was asked why did he want to climb it. he said, "because
it is there."

well, space is there, and we're going to climb it, and the mOon and the plaNets are there, and new hopes for knowledge and peace are there. and,
therefore, as we set sail we ask god's blessing on the most hazardous and dangerous and greatest adventure on which man has ever embarked.

thank you.